# Josh - Mozilla

[Democracy x AI Cohort | Mozilla Foundation](https://www.mozillafoundation.org/en/what-we-do/grantmaking/incubator/democracy-ai-cohort/)

Subj: Re: Project for Mozilla’s Democracy x AI

Hi Josh, 

as a follow up from our brief meeting last week with Artem, I wanted to send you a brief outline of a project idea that I’ve had for a while, and whether this is something you think could work for Mozilla’s cohort & some advice / whether you/Metagov can support this.

Project outline (in 3 granularities 😅): 

Coarse Overview:

Online platform that starts out mirroring existing policies of any participating country/entity, where participants can effectively deliberate on those and new issues; coupled with an economic system (tokens) to reward implementation and adherence to those decisions.

A bit more detail:

This is a platform similar to/building on some existing ones, like GoVocal, Forby, vTaiwan, … where users can ideate, deliberate and decide on issues (policies, projects, …). Issues could be from any regional to global level.

 
There will be multiple adaptive plugins (and continuous evolution of those) to address issues like polarization, bias, inclusivity etc during the different policy steps, and equally there will be multiple voting/consensus-finding mechanisms employed (conviction voting, delegation, …). Many of these plugins can be configured on a per-issue basis (e.g. some issues might be one-off decisions (let’s build a library here), others are ongoing (let’s have a policy to reward recycling)).  

Issues should optimally be vetted on the impact of their expected outcome: Only issues that are expected to have a positive impact on a variety of metrics (e.g. SDGs, Donought Economics, …) should be able to be voted on. These metrics can be populated in a variety of ways: 
manually (users directly assign their estimates); 
AI-guided (AI analyses it and does their own estimation);
Linked Prediction markets (people can ‘bet’ on the outcome; having a financial stake means greater care);
Expert-guided (users that are certified as experts in relevant fields might get special privileges to adjust metrics) 

When issues are decided on, they will have some reward function associated with it: Receive x tokens for proof of (real) work (PoW) towards milestones or similar; and various functions within the platform will have similar rewards for administration & moderation tasks (approving proof of work, watching the watchmen, …). Implementation of issues will be done in a classical market function; i.e. any entity can register interest and permissionless start work and get rewarded for PoW.

The details of the token economics will need to be figured out; but the core principles are: 
a) the main token should be tradable; 
b) whenever work is done new tokens are minted; and 
c) tokens are supposed to either lose value over time or get ‘burned’ (~ taxation) to keep the value + encourage flow. 

It is conceivable that other tokens can be created for various tasks with different functionality (reputation, responsibilities, …) that may or may not be tradable or exchangeable with the main token.

Crucially, participation & voting on issues is optional and only recommended for issues that a user has some stake or special interest and knowledge in. This is both to prevent overwhelming users, and also simply because it is not necessary to have majorities of a whole population as it is in classical democratic systems, but only a certain ratio of proponents (e.g. 10:1) within the much smaller stakeholder group. It is even conceivable that you’d want to specifically *prevent* some people from voting if they don’t have expertise or stake. So the system works well with each individual only being involved in 0 - 100 issues at a time, even if there are gazillions globally. 

E.g. you want to cut down a tree in a community garden; only members and neighbours would be affected. Many neighbours might not care, so they don’t need to get involved. Others might *care*, but don’t have expertise; they might delegate their voice to someone they trust has more expertise. The more people get involved, the higher the reward for executing the work in the end might be; so it is in the interest of the initiator (you) to get more people to participate. 

- On Gaming the system
    
    It is surely possible and probably unavoidable that people try to game the system; e.g. invite a group of close friends to quickly vote on an issue before opponents hear about it and can prevent it, and then deliver some proof of work that quickly gets approved by a friend to secure the reward. However, there are several ways how this could be counteracted (e.g. people will be able to comment on past issues and e.g. flag things that they think should not have passed or where the system was gamed. If enough flags are raised, the initiator, participants and PoW-approver might get some punishment, e.g. would not be able to participate or earn rewards for a certain time; depending on the severity of the misconduct.
    
    Also some base rules & principles can be applied to prevent more severe misconduct: 
    Reward amounts should be capped and depend on the number of participants; the same participants should not be able to pass multiple issues in quick succession without a variation of participants (e.g. the same 10 people should be able to pass at most 1 issue per month; they can only pass more issues if they include others, which will widen the circle and increase risk of discovery), etc…
    
    As with all other technologies, this will possibly be some sort of never-ending cat-and-mouse game; all I’m saying is that there are solutions, and the amount of ‘damage’ can be limited.
    

  

AI can be optional at many parts of this system, but is likely going to play a crucial role. Listed here are only a few of the ways how AI is likely going to be employed:

- Automatically and accurately summarizing issues - like with many forums, there is likely a lot of discussion & pro’s & con’s associated with every issue, reading through these will be near impossible for the average person. So it will be of great benefit to have an always automatically updated summary at the beginning, such that new participants can quickly catch up, and those involved longer can easier see changes.
- Ai-curated commenting: from filtering out spam to preventing duplications and ensuring high post quality etc, AI might check new contributions for a minimum quality standard
- AI guidance or facilitation on issues: AI could help by answering individuals’ questions about issues, and discussions could be facilitated by AI in various ways that prevent extremes and escalation
- AI prepopulating issues & statements: AI could create the most common expected pro’s and con’s automatically; possibly even before the issue is officially submitted.
- AI-guided metrics: AI could perform deep research and at the least suggest relevant scientific sources regarding the issue, or even extract and set metrics directly based on that research and/or based on comments on the issue.
- Issue discovery: AI could play an important role to suggest issues that you are likely interested in; although of course care has to be taken to prevent AI effectively ‘hiding’ other issues
- I don’t think we should do this (I actually think we should actively *prevent* this), but *possibly* we could even have personal AI that would comment & vote on your behalf.
- Discovery of misconduct: AI could analyse issues & participant behaviour on misconduct
- I suppose that it should be possible to ‘fork the government’ of many legislations, similar to g0v in Taiwan (or at least an approximation of that, by parsing legislative texts, possibly hugely aided by AI).

I could write more about it, but will leave it here for now; curious about your thoughts.
Finally, for the promised 3rd granularity, here’s another 22-page concept of it from a few years back. This is now slightly outdated, but a lot of the core principles are the same.

[https://drive.google.com/open?id=14eP0NOWfhPV4-yOmtyVJ4P4FNaYwqeNF](https://drive.google.com/open?id=14eP0NOWfhPV4-yOmtyVJ4P4FNaYwqeNF) & a corresponding blog post: [https://medium.com/predict/a-sustainable-next-gen-governance-d1b27a968e86](https://medium.com/predict/a-sustainable-next-gen-governance-d1b27a968e86)  

Moar not quite fleshed out examples:

Or you want to help foodbanks receive throwaway goods from supermarkets, but in the status quo there is a health and safety regulation preventing this. People who are interested in this possibly across multiple nations with similar regulations are chiming in and come up with a proposal how to solve this (change the existing regulations, or work around them in a legal way, …). I myself might be interested in this, but I don’t have time to read up on it. I might delegate my vote to someone I trust for this issue; or I might just ignore it. Ignoring it will have the effect that the potential reward might be a bit lower in the end

You explain your reasoning (e.g. it’s infected by a pest which would spread if not cut down), and a discussion ensues within those that are interested. You’re in a rush to get this done, so you open voting; the default settings might require a minimum of 10 people voting, and not more than 10% No votes.