# Metagov

Write about Kindact to people from MetaGov, and ask them what they think about this in their professional opinion!

Explain it simply, not too long, so that they can read it, very structured. (?)

[Resources & Raws](Metagov/Resources%20&%20Raws%202ef79a07423980469f94f120a47ee949.md)

---

Hi, over the past few years I’ve occasionally thought about a governance & economic system, and updated it with learnings from this & other communities & research; (although I am really bad at properly attributing where I get ideas from (so no quotes or sources), and there’s without doubt a lot that I haven’t seen). 
A lot of it is my own conjecture though, for which I don’t have concrete evidence of whether it’ll work except for a general understanding. (I haven’t done this as a rigorous study, but please criticize it to your hearts content)
I’d love to try this as an experiment to find out, and I’d love to get some feedback on it before doing something that accidentally creates a new monster we can’t control 😅

I’ll start with a bit of motivation and problem analysis, and then I’ll try to explain it (hopefully relatively simply without leaving too many important details out).

---

## Lay of the land

Current democratic governance systems are in many places incapable of dealing with challenges we’re faced with (how can we regulate AI), are struggling to keep pace with (or are mostly already far behind) current developments, or are outright broken. 

At the same time it feels like we as individuals are overrun and powerless in the face of what’s happening in the world. Break-neck technological innovation that unequally benefits those that are already privileged, Trump’s capture of Maduro & threat of taking over Greenland, and the general (perceived?) radicalization in countries all over the world makes at least myself think that even if I had some say in politics, it wouldn’t change anything anyway, or I just wouldn’t know what to do in light of these problems that even overwhelm nations.

As a response we’ve seen a big demand to improve governance processes, from better monitoring what our representatives are doing, to more involved and better decision making via e.g. citizen assemblies, and involving as many people as possible in planning for their future in e.g. BG2050.

Some of the problems can be addressed by changing ourselves and our immediate surrounding. They are starting local currencies 

### Problem statements

1. I feel I don’t have any influence on politics or the state of the world, I feel **powerless**.
2. I have **mental health problems** because of the state of the world.
3. I am worried about **economic inequality** because I feel I’m getting left behind.
4. I am afraid **technological disruption** from AI will take my job.
5. I am afraid to speak my mind because of **social polarization.**
6. We are divided by **affective polarization** and cannot talk to people who disagree with us.
7. We are **losing our social capital** and the local groups that bring us together.
8. We are creating **intergenerational injustice** by leaving a worse world for our children.
9. We have an **information disorder** and can no longer agree on what is true.
10. Our government lacks **state capacity** and is too weak to protect us.
11. Our leaders suffer from **short-termism** and ignore the long-term future.
12. Our laws are too slow and we suffer from **regulatory lag**.
13. We are causing global **ecological collapse** and killing the systems that keep us alive.
14. Global **Climate change** is making the Earth a dangerous place to live.
15. Global AI race is an **existential risk** to the future of humanity.
16. The rules-based **international order is failing** and peace is at risk.
17. Globally, we are hitting **environmental tipping points** that we cannot fix.

This is not a complete, but nevertheless relatively comprehensive list of problem statements, and most people would probably agree with more than half of these statements, no matter their ethnicity, culture or ideology. (For more there are plenty of papers out there, e.g. [Threats to Democracy](https://hapaipublic.org.nz/Attachment?Action=Download&Attachment_id=150596))

I’m going to try to show you how a (probably idealistic) new approach might provide the base upon which we can ‘solve’ *most* of these issues.
(And yes, there is a lot of idealism in this. But we have to start from somewhere, and without idealism we would get stuck in our old ways forever. I’d say it’s worth an experiment, especially because it’s actually very cheap and easy to do, for as long as we can prevent or minimize any new risks that might get introduced with this new approach)

---

## Approach

I’m envisioning a new online system (let’s call it ‘Kindact’ for now - an amalgamation of ‘Humankind acts + Kind Act + (Code of) Conduct) that allows users to find solutions to big or small problems, and that creates a reward (crypto token) for entities that implement these ideas.

### Outline

### How it solves each statement

- I feel I don’t have any influence on politics or the state of the world, I feel **powerless**.
& I have **mental health problems** because of the state of the world.
    
    [Stub: By using this platform, we can a) directly take part in the decisions that are important to us. This gives us a feeling of (equal?!) influence, and by following some of these projects we can directly see the impact they’re having. This will give us back the feeling of power & will likely reduce our anxiety about the state of the world, because we witness and experience the betterment of things]
    
- I am worried about **economic inequality** because I feel I’m getting left behind.
    
    [Stub: By getting the platforms (valuable) tokens I gain economic power and recognition]
    
- I am afraid **technological disruption** from AI will take my job.
    
    [Stub: We might not even need ‘traditional’ jobs any more. You can earn money by implementing issues that you stand behind from the platform - it’s basically like a gigantic bounty board where all bounties are almost guaranteed to be net positive]
    
- I am afraid to speak my mind because of **social polarization.** &
    
    We are divided by **affective polarization** and cannot talk to people who disagree with us.
    
    [Stub: Short: various anonymization- & ranking mechanisms etc.. 
    This is a multi-step process: 
    
    1. On the platform your voice is anonymized, so you don’t have an incentive to ‘signal’ but instead you can say what you truly mean (unless of course it is prohibited according to the platform rules, in which case your comment would be banned, and possibly the platform itself (but not users) can still identify the poster, and has the ability to ban the poster if there were multiple infringements)
    2. The platform would show you past comments based on an algorithm that takes some random statements, some outliers, and some highly upvoted ones; but it shows you those comments without that information. You can up-/downvote comments, but nobody (except the system) can see the total of up- or downvotes. So when you read other comments, you’ll always have to judge them by their merits, you won’t be influenced by their ‘popularity’. (Well… of course there are ways to ‘hack’ this, e.g. you could reload the page 100 times and figure out which statements regularly appear to identify those that are picked due to their popularity - but I’d imagine that won’t be worth the trouble. There might also be other ways, and mechanisms can be invented to counter those.)
    3. …

- We are **losing our social capital** and the local groups that bring us together.
    
    Proposals put up in a community will be more prominently visible to those from the same community. So community members that are interested in the same topics (even if they disagree initially) will interact (online and anonymous), giving each at least a feeling that they’re not by themselves in the community. [Also, in the discussion phase some groups might decide to have some in person events to bring the discussion forward, which will increase bonding]. Once (real-life) issues get implemented, people might physically meet IRL, if not then once the project is finished they’ll probably meet there, meeting each other.
    Another level is the process of aligning with each other on a common vision → gives them the understanding that others aren’t enemies → easier to hang out with each other  
    
1. We are creating **intergenerational injustice** by leaving a worse world for our children.
- We have an **information disorder** and can no longer agree on what is true.
    
    The information presented in the deliberation phase will all be fact-checked as much as possible (depending on available technology; possibly with AI, community notes, other automations…). This should at least create some trust on that what’s visible on this platform is trustworthy.
    
- Our government lacks **state capacity** and is too weak to protect us.
    
    This platform will **enhance** governance/state capacity (by giving additional funding etc) where issues align with state intentions, and **counteract** states where they diverge. So on important issues, where civic & state are pulling in the same direction it should significantly strengthen the capacity to achieve their goals.  
    

- Our leaders suffer from **short-termism** and ignore the long-term future.
    
    This platform will be even more short-term, in fact so short-term that everything becomes long-term. 😅
    Most issues should optimally *never close,* i.e. everything will be up for scrutiny and change at any given time (with some time buffers of course where it makes sense), such that regulations and projects can change direction without being whipped around without aim. 
    This will mean that short-term thinking will only pay out in the short-term, but (assuming that over the long term the issue will change into a more long-term trajectory) the bigger benefits will be found by longtermism. 
    
- Our laws are too slow and we suffer from **regulatory lag**.
    
    All issues are live 🟢 immediately after they reach certain participation / agreement thresholds. This means that laws and regulations can be created and updated very fast - as fast as the people’s mood x ability to mirror this on the platform. (With some caveats of course - i.e. some things that would require planing stability or are slow-moving by their very nature (big building projects, multi-year intents and research etc) would have a buffer period before they change the incentive (conviction voting). Some things might be able to be updated overnigth, some others within timeframes of 3months public stability.
     
    

- We are causing global **ecological collapse** and killing the systems that keep us alive.
    
    Built-in metrics & boundaries (SDGs, Planetary Boundaries) & prediction markets (& possibly other modules) would ensure that issues will never (as far as we can predict them at least) harm the planet or society.
     
    
- Global **Climate change** is making the Earth a dangerous place to live.
and 
Globally, we are hitting **environmental tipping points** that we cannot fix.
    
    Together we can deliberate and incentivize global actions that would mitigate, reduce, or reverse climate change
    
    .
    
- Global AI race is an **existential risk** to the future of humanity.
    
    Due to the unbounded nature of this platform, where we don’t have to think in national boundaries any more, it opens us up to the possibilities of international global collaboration. While mollochian dynamics would force us to push forward in developing AI, platform incentives can be structured to reward those the most that *halt* AI development, that research only according to the safest standards, that act transparently. 
    
- The rules-based **international order is failing** and peace is at risk.
    
    My hypothesis is that a large reason why international order is failing is that currently we *have* nation-states, and they always have to act in their self-interest. With the Kindact platform, where ‘groups’ can be formed across any real or ethereal area, national boundaries will (hopefully) reduce in significance, in favor of cross-border locations & interest-based groups.
    
    Hopefully with this change, doing everything for their ‘national interest’ will be deprioritised as well.
    

[Original Blog Post](Original%20Blog%20Post%202f379a0742398081b33cc3ba703c3312.md)